one, two, three, four!
Rev up your engines!
It's time for the Scotty Kilmer Channel
today I'm going to show you why it's a good
idea to wax your car, because if you
don't, your car can end up like this,
all faded and rusty, and to think that
this was once my car, I sold it to a
customer years ago, needless to say it
hasn't been waxed even once, in all those
years, now as crazy as it sounds, the
paint on your car is still somewhat
flexible, and if you don't wax it and
keep it pliable, it'll crack fade and
rust, now once it starts cracking, it's
too late,
so you need to wax it so the cracks
never start in the first place, now you
don't want to wax over dirt because the dirt
will scratch it, and it won't seal it
right, so first you have to wash your car,
use a little soap that's made just
for washing cars, then rinse the car off
before you use the soap, and when you're
cleaning with the soap, don't use a sponge
they can actually scratch the paint, I
use this sheep's wool mitt, it does a
good job cleaning, and it doesn't scratch,
let's start cleaning, and if you notice,
I'm doing it in the shade, don't wash
your wax a car and a Sun, it'll spot up,
you want to do in the shade, so you can
dry off easy and the Sun won't make it
spotty, then rinse all the soap off,
and then when you're done rinsing, you
want to get a chamois and take it off, I use
ione of these synthetic ones, because they
work fine and they last for years this
thing's over five years old, still
doesn't have rips and tears and it dries
fine, keep squeezing the water out,
and wiping it off, so there's no water
spots, and then comes a patience part, you
want to wait an hour or so in the shade,
so it dries off, because you don't want to
wax a car that has any water on it, and you
don't want to put it in a Sun, because
the Sun will get it too hot and the wax
won't work right, then once the car is
totally dry, get out the wax, and start
waxing, now there's all kinds of waxes,
solid ones, liquid ones, ones that claim
they last forever, but really, the solid
wax ones that are hard, that are a little
bit harder to put on, but they last
longer, and they're going to make your car
look better in the long run, the ones you
squirt on they don't hold up as well, now
once the cars dry, you get one of these
applicators, rub it inside on the hard
wax, and then do circular motion on the
car, do a section at a time,
because you don't want to get a whole
bunch of an on, then when it dries, it's
too hard to get off, so you do like the
hood, do the whole hood, and wait a few
minutes, and then start buffing off the
first side you did, then the other side,
when you see it starting to get dry and
hazy like this, it's time to buff it off
with a towel, now some guys are fanatics
and Ithey will use these microfiber towels, me,
I use our old house towels and they're
worn out and the wife is going to throw them
away,
hey I run it through the washer they're
nice and soft and they're good for
buffing, you just gently buff it off in a
circular motion, and you turn the tile
every so often, so you don't load it up
with wax, and when you're done with this
side, you can now see that the other side
is dry and you can buff that, waxing your
car section-by-section, gives it a good
gloss, doesn't build up too much, and it
will buff out really nicely, if you do
the whole car and then go back, some of
that white stuff is going stay on and your
car is going to look horrible, and of course
people are going to say, okay how often
should I wax my car, well it's a good idea to
wax it four times a year, once for each
season, and yeah it could be a hassle and if you're lazy, you can pay a
wax place to wax it for you, but just
realize, are they going to do as good of a job as
you are on your own car, and sure I'm as
lazy as the next guy, but I'm also cheap
so I do it myself, because really do you
want your car to end up looking like
this, at least while you own it, and
really wouldn't you rather have a nice
shiny car to drive around in, and
remember if you got any questions just
visit the Scotty Kilmer channel and
I'll answer them as soon as I'm done
drinking some of this moonshine!